List your top 5 favorite books/movies, and why
What would your perfect day be like?
What is one of your favorite songs from your childhood?
What is your favorite song/musical piece and why?
Describe your favorite location in your house and why you like it.
What would you do if you knew you could not fail?
Describe someone who is a hero to you and explain why.
What book did you read over and over again as a child?
I have never been more frightened than when...
Write about a time you cheated and got caught.
What’s your wildest dream?
What would you do if someone just gave you $1 million?
Write about what you think you will be like and what you will be doing 10 years or 20 years from now.
What is the next thing you want to learn? And to what degree?
What would you do if you could live a day without consequences?
If you could have dinner with anyone currently alive, who would it be?
What was your favorite cartoon?
Write one characteristic or habit about yourself that you like and describe it.  Or write about one thing you don't like about yourself.
Write about home improvements you would like to make.
List 10 hobbies and activities that bring you joy?
If you were ruler of the world, what things would you banish absolutely for all time (rain on weekends, eggplant, and so forth)?  Make a list.
If you could live anywhere you wanted, where would you live?
If you could become an expert in any subject or activity, what would it be?
Did you ever get lost?
What is the biggest accomplishment in your professional life?
What would you do if you could travel free anyplace in the world?
As a child, who was your favorite relative?
What is biggest lesson you learned in childhood?
Compile a list of inanimate or animate objects to which you might compare yourself metaphorically.  (I am a windmill.  I change direction or my thoughts whenever someone talks to me...)
Write about something minor that turned into a big deal.
What would you ask for if a genie granted you three wishes?
Describe your favorite sight.
Imagine yourself in a different century and describe an average day in your life.
Persuade a friend to give up drugs.
Invent a monster and describe it.  Tell where it lives, what it eats, and what it does.
Describe your favorite pet (or former pet)?
How is your life more positive today than it was a year ago?
How can you pamper yourself in the next 24 hours?
What was your childhood dream and why? What happened to that dream and why?
Who made you smile in the past 24 hours and why?
Who is the person from history that you would most like to meet and talk to?  Why?  What would you like to ask?
List 10 ways you can share your gratitude with other people in the next 24 hours.
What is your hobby?  Why do you enjoy it?
Create an ideal budget for your time and money based on percentages (Ex with finances: 10% donations, 40% to live on, 20% to support family, 15% taxes, 10% savings, 5% fun stuff, or something) Why is this your ideal budget?
Where do you want to be 5, 10, or 15 years from now?
Who is the one friend you can always rely on?
Describe the perfect day.  Put in as many details as you can.  Make it a possible day, not a 'dream day.'
List the top 5 people you admire, and why.
Write about a privilege you earned.
If you could change one thing about the world, what would it be?  Why would you make this change?
If you could go back in time and change one things from your past, what would it be?
What was your favorite subject in school?
If you could go somewhere where you've never gone before, where would you go and why?
What is a mistake that I’ve made, which ultimately led to a positive experience?
Write a letter to the editor of your favorite magazine telling them what features you would like to see included in the magazine.
Describe your favorite sensation.
What brings you joy?
Were you ever locked in or out?  What did you do?
What would you do if 300 mice had just gotten out of their cages in a pet shop where you worked?
Write a fan letter to your favorite actor/actress.
What is it like to go shopping with your mother? journal writing prompts
Write a letter to someone you need to forgive.
Compile a list of words that describe you as a child.  Compile a second list that describes you as you are now.  How are these lists the same?  How are they different?
What frightens you?
Begin a list of questions that you'd like to have answered.  They may be about the future or the past.
What is your favorite memory of your mother?
List 10 skills you have that most people don’t
If and when I raise children, I'll never...
How would you like to make this world a better place?
Write a letter to someone that upset you, but you aren't ready to confront in person.
What’s your first memory?
What would make you feel spiritually fulfilled?
Did you ever send away for something that turned out to be a disappointment?  (Or order something over the Internet)
Did you ever get lost in a strange town?
What was it like to come back home after a long vacation?
Describe a great fort you built for a great game you played as a child.
Who is your favorite person in all the world and why?
Tell about what triggers anger in you or someone else.
What would you do if money were no object?
What would you do if you were locked inside your favorite department store overnight?
What would you do if you woke up one morning to find yourself invisible?
If you could change one thing about yourself, what would it be and why?
Write down how you can improve your life.
Three goals I have set for myself are... 
Write about learning to skate, to ride a bike, to climb a tree, or to turn a cart wheel.
What is your favorite memory of your father?
Write about a baby-sitting experience.
Write about places you wish to see, vacations you plan to have.
What law would you like to see enacted which would help people?  How would it help?
Write letters to your future children and grandchildren that you can give to them when they are older. These letters will help them understand the type of person you were at their age.
Describe your favorite smell.
What is a popular song that you enjoy (and why do you like it)?
If your house burned to the ground, what are the top 1–3 things you would want to save? (not including people — assume your family is outside already)
What do you consider your greatest accomplishment to date and why?
What would you do it all the electricity in the world just stopped?
Who is a teacher or mentor that has made an impact on your life and how did they help you?
What is the best book you have ever read?  Why did you like it?  Did reading the book change you in any way?  What way?
Who was your favorite teacher?
List all the things you think you SHOULD do, that you don’t want to do.
Define the following: Success. Wisdom. Love. Faith. Truth. Courage. Joy
Describe a family tradition that you are most grateful for.
Write about a difficult decision you had to make.
You are to tell a person from a distant planet or from another era what pollution is.  Make that person understand what causes it and why it is bad.
Did you ever run away from home?
If you didn’t have to worry about money or people’s opinions, what would you do with your life?
List the 5 people you spend the most time with, why, and how they’re affecting you — your behaviors, your thoughts, your life.
What's, if anything, would you be willing to fight or even die for?  Explain your answer.
Describe your happiest childhood memory?
Describe your neighborhood bully.
Which character from a book would you most like to meet and why? 
Write about a disappointment.
Write about what you didn't do this weekend.
What makes you sad?
What would you do if you could travel into the future?
As a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
If you could do something that you never have done before, what would it be?  Why would you want to do it?
What do other people like about you?
What you SHOULD NOT do, that you do. Why?
Who was your best friend in elementary school?
Write down confessions of your deep down secrets that you can't tell anyone
Convince someone why music or art or computers are important in your life.  Make them appreciate your viewpoint.
What line of work do you plan on pursuing in the future?
Is there something you’re reluctant to tell someone?  Write a letter to help you organize your thoughts.
Write about a time you performed in front of an audience.
What current fashion in clothing do you particularly like or dislike?  Explain. 
If you could go back in time anywhere and anywhere, where/when would you go and why?
What is the biggest accomplishment in your personal life?
If you had $100,000, how would you spend it?
Write about children you plan to have, and what you wish for them.
What was it like to spend your first night away from home?
Write about a time in your life when you struggled with a choice and made the right one.
What is a recent purchase that has added value to your life.
What qualities do you want in a romantic partner? What are the top ten characteristics that you look for in a  romantic partner?
Name and write about someone you’ve never met, but who has helped your life in some way.
Close your eyes and imagine the kind of world you would like to see.  What is it like?
What do you think God is like?
Be a building you know well.  Talk about your life and memories.
What was your favorite toy?
If you could change one thing about your present life, what would it be?
What grand adventure do you wish you could go on?
Five years from now, I will be... 
What is your most vivid memory of the kitchen in your childhood?
What was the most painful thing you ever went through? What did you learn from it?
What famous world festivals would you like to attend?
What do you like the most about your town or city?
If you could meet any fictional character, who would it be?
Write about an enemy who eventually became your friend.
Write down the things you wished you had said to your parents, or other loved ones before they passed away.
What would you do if you could travel into the past?
What would you do if you were able to communicate with animals?
What is a book you wish someone would write?
What is one something you’ve learned this week that you're thankful for?
What would you do if the dinner served to you in a fancy restaurant came with a fly in the mashed potatoes?
What worries you? Is there a pressing problem you need to work out?
Write a list of at least 50 things that make you feel good.
How do you spend your money?
Write about the stray animal you brought home.
Describe your favorite taste.
What commercial on TV do you dislike beyond all others?  What about it is particularly annoying to you?
Write a letter to someone who believed in you even when you didn’t believe in yourself.
Write about a day you'd like to forget.
Is there a machine you feel you could not live without?  Explain.
What are the top ten qualities a friend should have?
Write a letter to be read by each of your loved ones after you’ve passed away.
Who can you serve? OR Who do you want to serve?
How do you spend your time? On a weekday? On a weekend?
Invent and describe a new food. 
Did you ever stick up for someone?
What is your favorite kind of weather?  Why?
Who is the person from literature that you would most like to meet and talk to?  Why?  What would you like to ask?
Describe an event that changed your life forever, or make up and describe an event that would change your life forever.
Describe your favorite sound.
Think about an incident that happened to you and exaggerate in the telling.  Make it into a tall tale.
What about your life makes you miserable? What do you know you need to give up?
